---
title: ---
title: <p>Underemployment Index [PDF]<a href="/thesis/Adam Gajtkowski Dissertation.pdf"></a> </p>
date: '2019-12-20'
---

I analysed short-term relationship between Bell and Blanchflower underemployment index growth and real wage growth. Current research suggests possible relationship between underemployment index and real wage, but researchers do not conduct econometric analysis of such relationship. This dissertation built on existing literature by updating underemployment index and analysing short-term relationship of real wage growth and underemployment index growth. To analyse the relationship, I firstly reconstructed underemployment index, adjusting Bell and Blanchflower methodology to ONS standards. I used quarterly data from the LFS, which cover period between 2000 q2 to 2017 q4. The results found, that in recent period underemployment index converges to unemployment rate, as both aggregated underemployed and overemployed hours are on similar levels. To test the relationship, I ran exploratory time series regression of real wage growth on lagged underemployment index growth, comparing results with regressions of real wage growth on lagged unemployment rate growth. I found real wage growth to be two times more responsive to changes in lagged underemployment index growth, than to changes in lagged unemployment rate growth. Next, I set two VAR models including real wage growth, underemployment index growth, and real wage growth, unemployment rate growth. I ran post estimation statistic, the Granger Causality tests. Results did not find any Granger-causation between underemployment index growth and real wage growth in any direction. There is also no Granger-causation between unemployment rate growth and real wage growth in any direction.
